Day 1: (3/07/26)
From here on out I'll maintain a devlog journal. In order to document design decisions,
Roadblocks, and whatever else i want to document. Both to look back on and also so that
I'll be able to put a more refined version in the actual documentation.

At this point basic pipeline structure is implemented. No hazard logic yet and nothing
else outside the core.

For now I'll implement a basic uart transmitter so i can verify it works on hardware. 

Day 2&3: (4/07/26 5/07/26)
Implemented the Uart and everything broke. Everything worked fine in simulation, nothing
worked on actual hardware, after a day of trying to debug things , i gave up and rewrote
the modules one by one and tested on hardware. First got the uart running them imported
the stages one by one.

Issues : 
->yosys-slang didnt support readmemh until recently , my toolchain wasnt up to date
so the entire memory was just 0s , and synthesizer optimized away everything.
->A bug in uart module causing the first 8 bits to update a cycle later.
->Data memory wasnt being interpreted as bram , it got implemented with 10k luts.
-> The way control unit was written , synthesizer somehow failed and found a combinational
loop even when there wasnt one. I cant have multiple always combinational blocks in the same
module i guess.

What I Learnt: Synthesis only proves logic is correct. It is no guarantee that it will work on hardware.
UpNext: Going to implement forwarding and stalls.

Day 4&5: (6/07/26 7/07/26)
I continue to find realities of the difference between simulation and hardware. This time however
my code wasnt working in simulation either.

What i did:
Rewrote Instruction fetch module because the way it was designed currently , it went out of sync
whenever there was a stall.
Added in support for forwarding and stalling.

Issues:
Forgot to forward data to memory also. Store word wasnt working as expected.
Added in default cases for almost all always_comb blocks because hardware was failing sometimes.
Synthesis seemed to base optimization off the test instructions , added a write port to memory
for now and hooked it to physical button , so it cant do that.

Main issue:
The issue i spent 3 hours debugging. The test instruction:
and     x8, x7, x1         # 0E0D0000
looks innocent enough , and it was executing correctly too, the instruction following this depended
on x8 and produced the right result. However instead of printing `0E0D0000` as it should have
i was getting `0E0000`.
This is wrong for many more reasons that just the fact the result is wrong. The most major of it being
it should be literally impossible. My Uart module always prints 4 bytes. The fact it was printing just 3 bytes
should not have been possible in any scenario. Ruling out the issues with cpu first , it seemed the instruction
itself was executing fine , instructions depending on it were evaluated correctly.
So the next culprit was the UART module , i looked through it entirely like 5 times, ran quite a few tests
and isolated that the issue is with 0x0D. This byte looked oddly familiar too , i searched it up and its ascii
for carriage return.

Running a confirmation test
addi x20, x0, 13
add  x21, x0, x20
addi x22, x20, 16
The output was:
00 00 00
00 00 00
00 00 00 1d

This was it. The problem was that my serial monitor , that was supposed to be printing plain hex btw , 
interpreted the carriage return and just skipped that byte.

UpNext:
Instead of dumping register values now , ill first convert it to ascii and print text now.
Moving on to implement control hazards.


